What does EHR stand for?
EHR stands for electronic health records.
Is also synonymous with electronic medical records or EMR,
which is sometimes also used.
What IS EHR data,
is being collected when we see a doctor or pick up
a prescription at the pharmacy or go to the dentist.
These are just a few of the examples where EHR data is collected.
This data is used for a variety of cases.
From personalizing healthcare for discovering novel drugs and treatments,
to helping providers diagnose patients better and reduce medical errors.
To illustrate the scale of EHR data in the US,
let's look at the number of health care claims.
There are some estimates that there were about 30 billion health care claims last year.
Regardless of the exact amount,
anything in this range shows the large volume of claims that are being processed.
. In addition and related to the access, it’s the high cost of health care in the US for 2019.
Personal health care costs in the US were projected to be $3.24 trillion by CMS.
This is an enormous amount,
and to put that in perspective,
that $3 trillion number is almost 15 percent of the US GDP for 2019.
This is a major opportunity for reducing costs,
and healthcare is projected to grow 0.8 percentage points faster than GDP until 2027.
EHR data can come from many different sources in today's world.
Data like heart health,
X-rays and scans, fitness trackers, and examinations,
all this helps to give us a 360-degree view of a patient's health;
and ensuring that this data is collected in
in electronic health record is very
valuable to not only the patient and their caregivers,
but also for data users.
This data becomes even more important when you can get
a longitudinal view of a patient's data and collect
it in a way that allows health care professionals and
and data scientists to make meaningful and accurate predictions.
To get better insights in predictions,
we need to be able to aggregate the data of many to
help address some of the biggest opportunities in health care.
As we mentioned earlier,
there is a major opportunity for impact,
and with the shift to electronic health records over the last decade,
this has enabled totally new ways to analyze and use EHR data.
In particular, EHR data and AI will
enable increasing access by lowering health care costs.
One of the major challenges in
the US health care system is reducing administrative errors.
With AI and technology,
we can streamline and/or eliminate many manual error-prone processes.
EHR data will also contribute to better diagnostics.
Companies are leveraging the large datasets on populations to find ways to better predict
diseases and conditions well before they occur
by seeing trends with these large datasets.
Lastly, EHR will unlock more powerful treatments by combining EHR data with
other data sources like genetics and
imaging data to build even more powerful and personalized treatments.
Already companies are using EHR data to
identify patient cohorts and clinical trials better,
and predict risks for different drugs based off of
population data instead of only human expertise.
Yet despite all of the advances in technology for health care,
there are many challenges still to overcome.
Globally, a couple of years ago,
the WHO and World Bank released a report that stated
that half the world lacks access to essential health services.
This issue of access can also be seen in
a report by the NYU Commonwealth Fund that found that
the US had 45 percent of US adults between 19 and 64 inadequately insured.
While these statistics might be subject to multiple interpretation,
there's common agreement that access to quality health care
is an issue for many globally and also in the United States.
These are only some of the many opportunities of using AI with EHR data in health care.
Hopefully, after completing this course,
you'll be able to apply your new skills to make a huge breakthrough in the medical world.
I'm excited to see what new things happen in this field.